A fieldbus is a member of a family of industrial digital communication networks[1] used for real-time distributed control. Fieldbus profiles are standardized by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) as IEC 61784/61158.

A complex automated industrial system is typically structured in hierarchical levels as a distributed control system (DCS). In this hierarchy the upper levels for production managements are linked to the direct control level of programmable logic controllers (PLC) via a non-time-critical communications system (e.g. Ethernet). The fieldbus[2] links the PLCs of the direct control level to the components in the plant of the field level such as sensors, actuators, electric motors, console lights, switches, valves and contactors and replaces the direct connections via current loops or digital I/O signals. The requirement for a fieldbus are therefore time-critical and cost sensitive. Since the new millennium a number of fieldbuses based on Real-time Ethernet have been established. These have the potential to replace traditional fieldbuses in the long term.



The Standard IEC 61158 Industrial communication networks - Fieldbus specifications is split into the following parts:

IEC 61158-1 Part 1: Overview and guidance for the IEC 61158 and IEC 61784 series
IEC 61158-2 PhL: Part 2: Physical layer specification and service definition
IEC 61158-3-x DLL: Part 3-x: Data-link layer service definition - Type x elements
IEC 61158-4-x DLL: Part 4-x: Data-link layer protocol specification - Type x elements
IEC 61158-5-x AL: Part 5-x: Application layer service definition - Type x elements
IEC 61158-6-x AL: Part 6-x: Application layer protocol specification - Type x elements

According to IEC 61158-1[24] the Standard IEC 61784 is split in the following parts:

IEC 61784-1 Profile sets for continuous and discrete manufacturing relative to fieldbus use in industrial control systems
IEC 61784-2 Additional profiles for ISO/IEC 8802 3 based communication networks in real-time applications
IEC 61784-3 Functional safety fieldbuses – General rules and profile definitions
IEC 61784-3-n Functional safety fieldbuses – Additional specifications for CPF n
IEC 61784-5-n Installation of fieldbuses - Installation profiles for CPF n


Despite each technology sharing the generic name of fieldbus the various fieldbuses are not readily interchangeable. The differences between them are so profound that they cannot be easily connected to each other.[39] To understand the differences among fieldbus standards, it is necessary to understand how fieldbus networks are designed. With reference to the OSI model, fieldbus standards are determined by the physical media of the cabling, and layers one, two and seven of the reference model.

For each technology the physical medium and the physical layer standards fully describe, in detail, the implementation of bit timing, synchronization, encoding/decoding, band rate, bus length and the physical connection of the transceiver to the communication wires. The data link layer standard is responsible for fully specifying how messages are assembled ready for transmission by the physical layer, error handling, message-filtering and bus arbitration and how these standards are to be implemented in hardware. The application layer standard, in general defines how the data communication layers are interfaced to the application that wishes to communicate. It describes message specifications, network management implementations and response to the request from the application of services. Layers three to six are not described in fieldbus standards.[40]


