An interesting parallel between a programmable quantum computer (whose admissible programs must belong to the computational basis [28, 29]) and a deterministic work extractor emerges here

Chiara proved that variables that can serve as input to a deterministic work extractor must be a set of distinguishable attributes

These could be either a set of sharp energy states; or a set of states that are not diagonal in the energy basis, each provided with orthogonal labels.

This constitutes the only possible 'work basis', which, like the computational basis, has to consist of distinguishable, orthogonal subspaces. These could be either a set of sharp energy states; or a set of states that are not diagonal in the energy basis, each provided with orthogonal labels. This poses a fundamental limit on the work that can be extracted deterministically from quantum systems with coherence in the energy basis, by a machine that can extract work individually from each of the states in the energy basis.

One can for instance envisage a process that extracts work optimally and deterministically from a system prepared in a particular, known, quantum state that is the coherent superposition of different energy eigenstates, [11], as compared to the corresponding thermal state with the same mean energy. Supposing the work extracted from the superposition is different from that extractable from each of the energy basis states, the results of this paper imply that such a process would have to be a special-purpose machine, which requires to know a priori which state has been prepared. Therefore, it is not a proper work-extractor in the thermodynamic sense, not more than a Szilard engine without its memory is.

**Acknowledgement**
My [Chiara] theorem establishes a novel foundation for thermodynamics, based on constructor-information theory, which is scale- and dynamics-independent. In quantum theory, this result implies that if one can extract different amounts of work deterministically from a system prepared in a set of states, these states must be orthogonal to each other. The theorem I proved is similar in logic to the no-cloning theorem in quantum information: it is a no-go theorem, stating that one cannot extract different amounts of work reliably from a system prepared in any one of a set of states unless they are perfectly distinguishable. However, it is more far-reaching than the no-cloning theorem, because it is dynamics-independent, so it is more general than, but compatible with, quantum theory. For instance, it could apply to the potential successors of quantum theories—e.g. theories of coupled gravity and quantum matter. It therefore provides a promising basis for constraining future subsidiary theories, including those describing exotic objects such as black holes or closed time-like curves. It also connects information theory and thermodynamics in an unexpected way, not regarding the second law, but the conservation of energy.


